# 1905

## Science and Nature

Two partial dinosaur skeletons, discovered in 1900 and 1902, initially thought to be distinct species, in 1906 were recognised to be examples of the same dinosaur. One species had been named Dynamosaurus imperiosus, but the other name was selected. What is this name and dinosaur, which derives from the greek for tyrant and latin for king?
> Tyrannosaurus Rex

Which notable neurologist and psychoanalyst published two papers in 1905: 'Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality' and 'Jokes and their Relation to the Unconcious'
> Sigmund Freud

Albert Einstein's 'Annus Mirabilis' papers were published in 1905, 4 foundational papers that defined much of the study of physics for the next century. What does 'Annus Mirabilis' mean?
> Miracle Year

The first paper, 'On a Heuristic Viewpoint Concerning the Production and Transformation of Light' describes the photoelectric effect and suggests wave-particle duality. Wave-particle duality is a fundamental principle of which discipline/approach of modern physics.
> Quantum / quantum mechanics

The second paper, 'On the Motion of Small Particles Suspended in a Stationary Liquid, as Required by the Molecular Kinetic Theory of Heat' describes Brownian motion. In the Hitchiker's Guide to the Galaxy, finite improbability can be generated by an atomic vector plotter suspended in a strong brownian motion producer. What cornerstone of english culture do they suggest be used for this?
> A cup of tea

The third paper, 'On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies' is the origin of Einstein's Theory of Special Relativity, and meant that the theory of Relativistic Mechanics replaced Classical Mechanics in describing moving bodies. Which scientist was responsible for the laws that form the basis of Classical Mechanics?
> Isaac Newton

In the fourth paper, 'Does the Inertia of a Body Depend Upon Its Energy Content', Einstein deduces his most famous equation, that of mass-energy equivalence. What is this equation?
> E = mc^2

What term was coined in 1905, which describes the heredity and trait inheritance of organisms, where features are passed between generations?
> Genetics

Also in 1905, two separate scientists described their models for the XY chromosomes in humans. What do the XY chromosomes determine in a human?
> Sex

In 1905 the Fritz-Haber process was discovered, shown here, for the simple production of ammonia. This would prove vital for Germany in World War I, as they used it to propduce what to help the war effort?
> Bombs and explosives





